Numerical analysis is a subfield of mathematics concerning the development and use of numerical approximations to solve continuous problems and is useful in cases where the exact solution is impossible or prohibitively expensive or laborious to calculate. It is essential in data science, deep learning and machine learning in applications such as parameter estimations, inference (e.g Markov Random Fields), numerical integration (e.g Bayesian Statistics) and numerical linear algebra (e.g PCA).

This task was completed in Python using two popular numerical methods, namely the Jacobi and Gauss-Seidel methods to solve a system of n linear equations for n unknowns. The algorithms used also show the value of x*(i) for each i = 0,1,...,N. The programs were tested using the two linear systems shown in IM_0398.jpg.

The Jacobi method is an iterative algorithm for approximating the solution of a system of n linear equations in n variables which is diagonally dominant. In this method, an approximate value is filled in for each diagonal element of the matrix derived from the system of equations. The process is repeated until it converges.

The Guass-Seidel method is a modification of the Jacobi method which produces more accurate results within fewer iterations. In the Jacobi method, the value of the variable is not changed until next iteration, whereas in Gauss-Seidel method the value of the variables are modified as soon as new value is evaluated. For instance, in Jacobi method the value of x_i*(k) is not modified until the (k + 1)th iteration but in Gauss-Seidel method the value of x_i*(k) changes in in kth iteration only.
